Hey guys welcome back.
So last time we grade config file which allowed us to communicate with our Miles grow our database.
Now it's time to actually sign using it to insert user details.
So in the areas of BHP we're going to pass in the common variable here.
Again action variable when we include the file here to it's passing that com variable into our account
object so we can use it in our account functions.
Okay.
So investors are BHB where we correct this account variable.
We're going to pass in column like that in the Account class.
But you need to go up to these constructer here at the top remember the constructors the first thing
that gets called when you create an object so common because we're passing this in and then we're going
to just create a variable at top here as well private on that.
And then in this space just set this can equal to con like that.
So were passing in the collection very well here.
So we have it right here and we're signing it.
The variable in the class like that in our register function remember that when we get to this bar here
if empty if this error message is empty it means no error messages were inserted when we checked the
data it means we can go ahead and inserted a database.
So instead of turning true we're going to return a function we're going to call code insert user details
so we'll create that function right now.
Underneath there will say private function insert user details like that right.
And this function is going to take a user name so you and these are values going to insert into the
database first name and last name and email and then finally password just paid that way you can actually
copy the best name of this function here.
And pretty right there return insert details.
And inside the prentice's were going to put the first user name first name last name and then password.
But we can just copy and paste exactly as we have here because we have called on the same names as they
appear appear username first name last name email and password.
All right so that's great.
Now all that's left to do is actually insert the details.
So go down to our insert news details function and we can just say an encrypted P that we use for encrypted
password equals 5 which is the encryption method we're using.
Do we.
So this modified function takes where a password is encrypts it using the endI 5 method.
There are many different ways to encrypt passwords but only 5 is a very simple way to get you started
on encryption.
It's very easy to understand.
And for a beginner I recommend using only five but from experience users you can explore other encryption
options.
So if we pass in for example password it's going to return some big long string of numbers in letters
so that we can't see what it is.
OK.
You'll see how that works when we actually submit a password to the database.
So no actual downloads profile pic equals and this can be the link to our profile picture folder.
We have actually created this file yet so we can create that right now.
So it's the root folder the one with our pages create a new folder discover to be assets be the folder
that holds our images our javascript files vss files inside the assets folder create a new folder called
images and inside the images father create one new folder called profile pics like that and then this
folder is going contains all of our profile pictures.
But for now Rogen had one and actually have this profile picture right here.
Ready.
It's just a simple picture of a face it's intrinsic pixels by hand in tracing see you can find your
own profile picture or you can use this one and I'll include it in the in the course content so you
can say you have access to this.
So basically I want to use that and drop it into the profile specs folder like that.
And that should be it.
So pathways assets images slash profile dash picks like that and then the name of the image was had
underscore Emerald popinjays copy the name of the school Emerald dot n g like that.
So that's our over our picture.
And last thing before we actually set the date a date equals.
Date that as the premises put uppercase y dash lowercase dash lowercase D like that three year month
day.
So we need to use upper case Y and lowercase M indeed because using anything other than that produces
slightly different results in the way it formats the years the month in the day.
So for now we're okay with just that.
And now obtusely is the data result.
It calls my Escuela by the score query and philine this is your first crew for some of you this might
be a first query you ever wrote so you might want to watch while you first let me explain it and then
follow along.
I can't remember where to use this con because it's a class variable so if we didn't do that and we
just did it this way we'd get an error because it doesn't know what this is.
We have to make sure we put this.
Our common friend like that.
Right.
And then the quote itself is the second parameter and that's going to be insert into users values right
there.
I'm going to type out the values first and then explain that afterwards.
I rather expect that I go.
So watch me type it out first if you want and then I'll explain each parameter afterwards so you can
that comma single quotes Effendi like that comma single quotes commoner single quotes the single quote
comma single quote in it to password and go quo comma single quote date single comma and then finally
a single quote.
Profile Pic single quote and then print this.
Okay so what I've done there is this is the part where we insert the values and these parameters matched
up with our database table so in the users table if I click on structure users table Instructure you
see this is the structure of it.
The first column is idae which we put auto in command so it is assigns a value on its own.
So we left that blank.
We still have to have this there but we don't have value in there.
The next one is user name right there.
You n.
Next one is first name in Excel and last name many now so first name last name email then we have password
sign of date and profile pic password sign up date profile pic.
Okay so you have to be in the order of the columns in the table.
And one thing you need to know is you need to have single quotes around your variables if you just did
this.
You get an error.
So you have to have single quotes around your variables like that.
Okay so if you're getting errors when you submit this check that you have single quotes around every
single value and also check that you have a comma right here.
Okay you have to have commas between each one as well but not on the last one.
And then finally just check that you have this last parentheses right here in the string.
Often I forget to put that.
So make sure you do have this last parentheses right.
Going and see it.
Well you do now is use return return result like that and the reason we do that is because it is my
Ask your query function returns true or false if it if it works.
If it didn't work so if this was successful.
Return true if there was an error time false because if you look closely we return now here and in the
register handle that BHB.
We will call this register function.
We use the value which will be true or false depending whether the query succeeded.
And then if it was true we go to the index page and that's it.
Or do analysis test it out.